feat: add article how-to/extract-packages.rst (#66)
canonical/ubuntu-packaging-guide: docs/how-to/extract-packages.rst

Extract packages
================

> This article demonstrates how to extract the contents of debian packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article demonstrates how to extract the contents of Debian packages.
```

See also the article :doc:`/explanation/package-model` for a deeper 
understanding of package formats.

.. _ExtractSourcePackage:

Extract a source package 
------------------------

This section demonstrates how to extract the content of a source package.

.. note::

>     A source package archive has the file ending `.dsc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A source package archive has the file extension `.dsc`.
```

>     See also the man page :manpage:`dsc(5)` for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See also the manual page :manpage:`dsc(5)` for further information.
```

.. important::

    Make sure that you have the `dpkg-dev` package installed. 

>     To install it run the following commands in a terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To install it, run the following commands in a terminal:
```

>     .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: none
```

Author: Why did you change the syntax of this and other code blocks from `bash` to `none`?

Reviewer: Because:
- It's not semantically correct to use (Bash) syntax highlighting on command-line examples. It's not a Bash code block (i.e. a piece of Bash code where the user could expect to see syntax highlighting IRL).
- The highlighting that results from having `bash` specified is not particularly helpful. E.g.:
   
   ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d5b64f7a-8ff5-42c6-90c3-e5d61ceed0d3)

   (It's not that bad in this example, but elsewhere, with numbers involved, for example, it becomes more confusing.)

But the main reason is that it's not intuitive for the user: they do not see their commands syntax-highlighted as they type/paste them on the command line.

        sudo apt update && sudo apt install dpkg-dev

> Run the follwong command in a terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command in a terminal:
```

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: none
```

    dpkg-source --extract SOURCE-PACKAGE.dsc [OUTPUT-DIRECTORY]

``SOURCE-PACKAGE.dsc``
    The path to the source package control file.

``OUTPUT-DIRECTORY`` (optional)

>     The path to the directory where to extract the content of the source
>     package to. This directory **must not** exist. If no output directory is 
>     specified the content will be extracted into a directory named 
>     ``NAME-VERSION`` (where ``NAME`` is the name of the source package and 
>     ``VERSION`` its version) under the current working directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The path to the directory where to extract the content of the source
    package to. This directory **must not** exist. If no output directory is 
    specified, the content is extracted into a directory named 
    ``NAME-VERSION`` (where ``NAME`` is the name of the source package and 
    ``VERSION`` its version) under the current working directory.
```

> See the man page :manpage:`dpkg-source(1)` for further informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the manual page :manpage:`dpkg-source(1)` for further information.
```

.. _ExtractBinaryPackage:

Extract a binary package
------------------------

> This section demonstrates how to extract the content a binary packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section demonstrates how to extract the content a binary package.
```

.. note::

>     A binary package archive has the file ending `.deb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A binary package archive has the file extension `.deb`.
```

>     See also the man page :manpage:`deb(5)` for further information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    See also the manual page :manpage:`deb(5)` for further information.
```

> Run the follwong command in a terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command in a terminal:
```

> .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: none
```

    dpkg-deb --extract BINARY-PACKAGE.dsc OUTPUT-DIRECTORY

``BINARY-PACKAGE.dsc``
    The path to the binary package control file.

``OUTPUT-DIRECTORY``
    The path to the directory where to extract the content of the binary

>     package to. In comparison to :ref:`ExtractSourcePackage` this directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    package to. In comparison to :ref:`ExtractSourcePackage`, this directory
```

    can already exist and even contain files.

> See the man page :manpage:`dpkg-deb(1)` for further informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the manual page :manpage:`dpkg-deb(1)` for further informations.
```

.. tip::

>     Using ``--vextract`` instead of ``--extract`` will also display

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using ``--vextract`` instead of ``--extract`` also outputs a list of
```

    the extracted files to :term:`standard output <Standard Output>`.

>     To just list the contained files use the ``--contents`` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To just list the files that the package contains, use the ``--contents`` option:
```

>     .. code-block:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: none
```

        dpkg-deb --contents BINARY-PACKAGE.dsc

.. tip::

    You can also replace ``dpkg-deb`` with ``dpkg`` for the examples 

>     demonstarted here. ``dpkg`` will forward the options to ``dpkg-deb``. 
>     See the man page :manpage:`dpkg(1)` for further informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    demonstrated here. ``dpkg`` forwards the options to ``dpkg-deb``. 
    See the manual page :manpage:`dpkg(1)` for further information.
```
